hi everyone welcome to the ipfs core
weekly sink from Monday the 27th of
April 2020
I am your host I can bring on the
Internet
now it's in your life food now high
priority initiatives and give updates on
what's going back very exciting so first
one is upcoming and shipped releases of
big news is Gloria Feldt 0.5 tell us
what's going on yes we are in the
process of prepping everything for
release tomorrow there is a big note in
there about
EDH chief super wants to go go over that
basically we're not gonna be running two
protocols yeah the Tod are is that we
tried to monitor and try to get
particular to the network yeah on Friday
and don't like a Thursday and Friday and
it's not take a little metrical um we
feel like we could still make this work
in theory but it'll take more work to
get some extra scale up to where we can
actually receive all the captions
because yeah one support constant
providing lots of content get hundreds
of thousands of connections a second or
request a second yeah all right first
let's go on so the field ers new code
but same old protocol version that means
the performance in the RCS unfortunately
will be the same as the performance on
live network until upgrading so when we
cut this really is for gonna start
telling people please upgrade please
upgrade please upgrade please upgrade
and beyond that we may start also like
pushing out nodes that are running the
old version so example like the next
release may have some rules front like
saying hey like if you don't appear to
be a good DHT node like you're running
an old version like ping you you're
behind in that I fixed your routing
table and it appears to be mostly empty
Arecibo bad beers that kind of stuff
then we just like droppers in traffic
table this is tricky to do because if we
do too much of this then like we know
actually breaking Network more than we
fix it because if some peers have a view
of network where they see though there's
a network emoji or something feel the
network they don't think there's a
network you can end up like putting and
getting context different peers yeah
we may also do the protocol switch in a
future release it's necessary but
basically pumped it up for now the other
thing you have to say about der by five
is that we have a release party on
Friday please check your calendars
everyone is invited it is a virtual
release party unfortunately but mix
together ideally tasty things talk with
Magnus hang out different stations
welcome against releasing when curry
figs all great well I don't know great
well don't get annoyed so it's a lot of
people don't upgrade then they're
probably the people who are not
upgrading will continue to join the DHC
even if they're behind hacks and also
like the t's not properly maintained
their battery tables so like putting bad
actors I feel even built around around
them so like other changes we are making
in the next release should help with
this a bit one is like if we start
having quick by default
it means we can start dialing more and
basically having more parallelism just
change how we use our parallelism the
DHT served like these notes faster again
there's a saying before like we could
have good notes or like ping each other
and determine like if like if other
knows the networks are like misbehaving
it if they are urgently
item drop them if necessary for like
really old nodes we could start like
projecting them as if it's Jeffers we
don't want to do that because that's not
very nice that means they can't use it
period but we do have some notes that
are still using like there are not 4.14
and if you've ever seen it up here that
has like a million addresses usually
this this this is far and out comes from
like older nodes that are like
remembering too many like observed rest
appears and then their own forgetting
them yeah so I'd like
as like the last resort that we'd like
to not do because it got nice but yeah
we will pick what a first step necessary
to fix with the network you say there's
gonna might need some changes in the
next release I mean we're gonna see left
in tht interpretation between now I'm
not gonna see uh I know we don't see
Krause right we won't see any do you see
a gradation so we will see see will
operate the GC can only go up from here
basically like I was working up quicker
by five it'll get better
and the certified code against the
current HC is already much much better
than the journal for code against the
current DHD so like we're definitely
seeing lots of big improvements but when
it's a logical don't upgrade then it's
not going to get as good as our light
orchestra house saku-dono to test this
thing okay what if everyone is running
video everyone a dirty cook it's great
yes like not everyone's running the new
code and but we're all using same
protocol then it's basically as good as
like the current test got black pepper
give you try to like resolve content on
your local node originally the question
from David what is being the largest in
a DHT test that has been done for long
the number of nodes in the network test
testing alive networks how we've done 2k
I believe a team right yeah
1k pretty stable a 2k has been working
last time I tried it we've done some
tests on the live network as well
obviously that's it is both it is both
different and and in some ways more to
get it and more indicative of what it
will be on the during the release now
that we know we're not doing the
protocol rollover most of the test
ground tests were done either
unlike pure old protocol - new protocol
we had some that were done with a mix of
the two but there's less of an emphasis
there because the plan was to do the
rollover turns out that is you scale the
network as more people upgrade
performance will improve for everyone
not just the people who have upgraded so
even if you're selfish and don't feel
like upgrading because you have some
independency tell your friends it'll
make your thing bastard nice get
follow-up question to that one is I'm
curious like did you get to use this
ground to test the wife Network like
when you speak like a thousand nodes
okay now you know because Khanna has
like a separate networking thing that
separates it out from everyone else
although he did actually somewhat test
aligned network using Hydra because we
just be stuck the Hydra on the bud
network but we weren't doing like a
large-scale greatest that's when we
decide to pull it because we found that
actually when we mix it Hydra the
queries were not nearly assassination of
him yeah because the Hydra notes were
typically is like massively or a little
ocean couldn't accept new connections
could process every bite that kind of
stuff classroom yeah yeah there's like
oh yeah I saw some of those nodes
another question and I'm not sure if I
can just like bombard questions here or
it's okay it's probably to the end as we
have the question section okay simply
get to writing Chris
coming releases for jockey first he's
getting a patch release and like
eminently which put some questions of
DHT the DFC API over HTTP man I'm just
trying to figure out why wasn't really
weird test Bailey's in CI they probably
and possibly so it looked fairly good
investment and there's something TC
tests and comedy monkey and then days
whichever manner hash one man's
replicate locally so moving on the most
routine so the big items here obviously
the auto-5 release which we talked about
and then we've also kicked off work for
six this is moving into our six-week
release cycles so that's kicked off
about five will have the priority there
but we will create the release issue for
tracking everything after the auto-5
lunch and then I will jump into noise in
82 five five four nine
these were its separate line item but
their content routing related at least
for the team so I pulled them up into
this for now I added a tracking issue
for DJ s side of things and Jay subdue P
so I'm just tracking everything there
for both of those because I'm just
creating myself a crypto Jay s work
stream to fix and do things so if you're
interested following over there you can
look at that for noise there is a
blocking issue the goal of PGP Damon
needs to get updated with the latest
noise so I will coordinate with somebody
to make sure that that gets done yeah
and then my goal is to get Interop
testing for noise I would like to I give
s testing to start tapping by next week
so that we are ready will in advance of
the 6rc
and that's the update there
is kind of fix the invalid MAC addresses
our PCMCIA codes you will see anyone
Osprey want everything hydride boosters
need in the mode you know that is yeah
sorry that's that's my habit um alright
so quickly I think we talked a little
bit about this already but we do stirs
we scaled up to around ten hydras 250
Hertz each that was many many heads and
for the machines that we had that was
that was too many and they were not
happy the spec of the machine was just
not enough and or perhaps we didn't have
enough machines but we had hit our
digitalocean limits and they didn't get
back to me for two straight days so I
wasn't able to upgrade them so that's
annoying but nevertheless the we we
tested that hit them out of u2 rolling
the network over to the new DHT protocol
and there was problems with like latency
doing queries and connecting to these
these things are partly because of the
250 ahead thing but when we scaled them
down to 50 we were still seeing that
issue so there's something up that needs
to be debugged and that i'm hoping to
spend a whole load of time on this week
and aside from that the share Postgres
provider store is now looking stable
that means that all hydras that we have
so not just hydra heads and all hydras
will share the same data store that has
to provide a records in it so rather
than sharing like for every Hydra we had
like a million records in the data store
but now we've got all of the hydras
sharing around four million records and
there's no duplicates so that's that's
good and also having a separate data
store allow us to have a persistent
in datastore so if the hydras went down
and came back up again then the data
would still be there previously we were
just using a level DB in a docker
container that was wiped with when they
went down and up so that's good
and so yeah that's that's looking good
that involve some debugging and like
deadlocks and things which which is good
run and so now yet onto like really
trying to evaluate hydro effectiveness
and figure out any remaining issues that
there are with with running many many
Hydra heads and hopefully coming to some
good conclusions
who so moving on subdomain gateway page
origin isolation from mother this week I
post the J's because work for a few days
to focus on IPS desktop to be ready for
0.5 which will ship subdomain gateways
to test abusers I guess that's related I
think that's it we fix a small UX issue
with directory listing but I think
Stephen scheduled that 20.6 right so
okay yeah that's it
cool that's what not dates yes
so bits up is pretty much ready to go so
we we found we had an issue where we
were creating sessions for every single
block and that resulted in us
broadcasting every single block so
that's been fixed now and we also had a
timing issue so we were getting a lot
more duplicate blocks and we should have
been getting so we've also fixed that so
I think that's pretty much ready to go
did you Kenny we're looking into why the
interface tests should have been broken
by Jess this one yes there's a there's a
PR there I can talk about it with you
offline cool is it my dear well it's one
that I made but you've been you know
I've been kind of going back and forth
on
alright stream-based content early
research improvements yes
so last week I kind of get the first
demo finalized you I think supposed to
look and actually nothing exploded so
that was interesting
I am currently chasing one more bug in
the library that implements an async
read at least interface of sorts which
is celebrity that has been extract
already chrome dagger also am also
finalized both the general chunker
interface and the general lincoln
interface everything kind of fell to the
other ones once things were factored for
for the hundredth time and yeah
hopefully I will have point one released
sometime before the release party on
Friday
but you know I talked with my chickens
yet there are of you like everything
that has been found so far as a problem
has been explained away like yes this
was a clear bug this make sense there
are a couple more things that are
behaving strangely when I spin this on a
vertical system so yeah that's kind of
what's take most of the time but yeah
looking clicking great and the final
version of the interface is actually
something that is going to be easier to
integrate in the white resin I
originally thought so
Goodwyn there we can talk this over with
Steven already but it might be that some
of this stuff will even learnt in 207 so
so I have
school
most most initiative its kind yeah hey
folks over the next few weeks we're
gonna be moving towards UNIX FS support
which is something that we've got from
some community people that want to use
rusty FS particularly not in the I want
to say embedded but not like firmware
but more like really constrained small
Linux environments that run on like
industrial IOT devices and stuff so
that's what we'll be working on next and
getting that support in and that would
be a super interesting tool for the gala
this weekend ain't no kind of
applications of micro FS in hardware
constrained environments yeah I think I
think I registered for like a demo on
one of the upcoming calls in like May or
something so maybe we can show some of
that off there - that'd be cool
next up is crystal improvements in
Jesslyn yeah so peers are ingest the
milestone - which bearing for him mobile
is not complete all the peers were
merged in the Liberty modules and they
are now released as bitter for a time
being the gesture PT PPR was also merged
in the 0:28 branch and we will basically
release all of them at the same time
also related with this beautiful removal
basically we were using before the
period for providing the listening
addresses for a loop HP which was kind
of strange or not that cool
so I created also related to this an
address manager component PR so that
basically we can provide similarly to go
live HP and you go ipfs listen announced
in no announced addresses for a lipid
feed this is also currently being
reviewed by Jacob so this is probably
merge this week as well then in the
milestone tree with the persistence for
address book inverter book the initial
implementation is also ready for hope
you
I think there are a couple of open
questions that we'll need to make some
decisions but I'm confident it will
probably get these merge this week as
well so also
meanwhile this week I will start to work
on the fourth in the last milestone of
these initial improvements for the
piercer which will include the cubic and
also integrating let's make a chain on
it and that's it
who
so cancel all the questions oh so P of s
that's the next one so this is
implemented and tested in the CLI and
the core is just yeah the HTTP test to
go
it's enormous like I think a couple of
our instead of a single API call is that
a massive change you knew yeah well it
is enormous so yeah that's why it's
taken so long and it'll be lovely
together
everybody get in buy into the week so
that we can concentrate on the bits from
stuff would be bad
has anyone got any questions is it Fred
it forever thing yeah that was that well
so it's the timeouts are done at the
very at the call so the CLI and
everything calls into the call time
answer there but the signal is passed
all the way down to at least the
bookstore right now and so there is
Piazza been emotional IPL t and the
blobstore
and then the next movie two bits after
that so everything should get a signal
whether or not it pays any attention to
it or not is another matter but that's
the kind of thing that we can improve
over time
other initiatives unix of us v 1.5 enjoy
difference yes it is being worked on but
it's all please
I think I saw the person who responded
to the bounty for us had some kind of
external pressures that mean that they
haven't had the time to spend on it once
but trying to pick up again now at
performance update their migrations and
multi hash keys in the block stone
[Music]
no progress but I want to set up a
meeting with a bunch of people this week
to decide what to do with it and I will
link to the relevant discussion and she
only think I have happened there this
week or next week will see how the
calendar look excellent it will be great
together one nailed down our that's it
for the initiatives next up we just
wanna read proposals would anybody like
to propose anything for a design review
you know I'd like to get feedback on
both like the general idea and
implementation for how to do sort of a
gradual DHT protocol rollover instead of
this like switch everything all at once
in particular I want to have a like
effectively a Testament that will
operate and be compatible with the
existing networks so that we can get
people testing any protocol changes like
long before a release comes out I will I
sort of have the drafts for this I will
put it into a github issue and attach it
to the document the next session is
brokers and asks answer the questions a
quick time check we've got three minutes
left in three minutes we can feel free
question so what happens with the
pinning system revamp proposal so that's
well so the json' is still open I want
to pick it up it's slated in there to
release right now
is basically transfer requests then the
bits what improvements and then pinning
so that's kind of yeah so we're gonna
get to it
next week or the week after I think
Acton thank you a question from the beat
with the HTV one versus V to the
multitude of plans that we had over
times present epoch engineering war
story and something that is not trivial
to understand what level of detail where
we explained it to users we be sure they
don't interpret it as we are breaking
backwards compatibility well that's been
answered in chat and I have posted all
the answers there but feel free to okay
there's no point is like yeah we like
yeah we did actually consider just know
like like everything approach which was
switched the gnudi HD version and just
like we're technical nodes we did not go
with that which is why we are not
changed version I mean a little bit
better so if we get a hungry person like
running like they just install a because
they stopped 2:05 but they're like
infrastructure still on 0 for 22 will
they be able to find yeah yes it was
true both with the old proposal and how
it is currently but the way it is
currently there's like no room for
ambiguity because there's only one
protocol version like there is no new
protocol there are only old nodes
running better at query logic and
routing table logic yes with small
ambiguity if the old nodes are on the
same private network but don't have
public addresses then in the past you
would route requesters best question
though using the private to work but
that was broken anyways because like you
would until house it will try to connect
his private notes that would then you
would publish your records this private
note people couldn't find them so these
actually would unbreak that the other
way
like yes basically the oldc in the news
you see are the same DHD there's no
breaking there the plan was to make it
but to have a sort of a break where they
would the old the new DC was a subset of
the old DHT that's it like it wasn't it
was overlapping enough is it any put the
old age to it Oscar the new da seen any
puts the DHD would always be something
the old eh D yeah but we couldn't get to
the point where we could have I could
pick it a subset really do that properly
sure so I think one of the things that
I'm not sure if I'd as been considering
drop to I was just asking question is so
right now like we rely on the of the
notes kind of myself identifying itself
has like a nothin note and therefore not
joining the HTTP protocol what if there
was like a server mode like an
infrastructure mode where we could like
enable in our bootstrappers our gateways
like if you're at cetera where if you
have a node connecting to you and you
can see that you cannot buy all the
nodes in another report because that
node is behind a net you will not
include that nodes in your DHT routing
table yeah that's what's talking about
with the testing we're like yo they're a
bunch of things with your healthcare so
we could do that we have to hit it and
we may end up doing we put it in there
so we'll get them to upgrade now we
might actually do them like one is
battle back the problem is like we don't
wanna do this for every single pair but
you see we could do it eight like if we
decide Mead and you want to add them to
a routing table um the other thing we
can do is like we can make queries I
guess summit a like hey like these your
routing table folk appears if it queries
the charge that appears that we got from
you it's like a like are you properly
tilted in your radical but all these
things are expensive we want to make
sure that like we do them very carefully
quick should also help with this because
it makes style a lot less expensive
it makes connection box expensive yeah
and that's coming in X relation but of
course we'll be able to download these
old notes you're running quick so yeah
thank you but again I care what I
highlight there is always a problem with
it for like if different nodes are
applying these rules differently and it
enough of like a just next movie like
what some does knows think are good and
what other
good then like you get basicly different
views in the network where if I end up
if I have an older note and I traverse
the network through some older set
appears I will put two once it appears
if an in traverse the network three
difference it appears I will try to put
or get from a different set of peers
which means that you won't like you'll
benefit grade and service the network so
when you when you make these changes you
still need to get like a large force in
the network to start like following
these rules it's also worth noting like
some of these rules are like hard and
we'll have to like figure out later in
particular China is hard government has
this Great Firewall thing that makes it
so that convictions between the country
and places outside of it operate
differently than connections inside of
the country and so you could end up in
scenarios where like some people think
other people are diable and others do
not
which could lead to like on network
network shapes I think you guys that's
how do you test that yeah
you have many users in China yeah we
have a yes so you can law there I
started on a crawler I last week to sort
of graph the network distribution will
has started on some crawler stuff to
show like where all the nodes are
hopefully we will be able to glue these
two things together and then we can see
if the network distribution in shape has
any correlation the notes actually are
and then we'll get a better picture of
how it looks sounds good and so we are
who the time now so we can cool this
museum closed thank you for coming
everyone
it's been the I profess core Luigi stink
for Monday April 28 the 27th so a 2020
it's been amazing really great has been
awesome progress but they're very much
looking forward to go up here first one
point five
amazing and also like you know enjoy
your isolation haircuts that bloom on
because we're gonna be added like a gel
some crazy crazy shapes I'm sure but you
know on the Internet